---
layout: page
title: Development and evaluation of a novel 3D in-shoe plantar strain measurement system: STAMPS3D.
description: > Sairally F, Turnbull R P, Siddle H J, Russell D A, Brockett C, and Culmer P R. April 2025
sitemap: false
categories: [publication]
tags: [interaction]
---

<h2> Development and evaluation of a novel 3D in-shoe plantar strain measurement system: STAMPS3D. </h2>

<h3>[Sairally F](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0641-9350), Turnbull R P, Siddle H J, Russell D A, Brockett C, and Culmer P R</h3>
<h4>Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part H: Journal of Engineering in Medicine</h4> 

<a class="btn btn-outline-primary my-1 mr-1" href="https://eps.leeds.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering-research-design-robotics-manufacturing/doc/robotics/page/2">Laboratory</a>
<a class="btn btn-outline-primary my-1 mr-1" href="https://doi.org/10.1177/09544119251330738">DOI</a>

This publication is Open Access and can be found following the DOI link above.

 <h3> Abstract </h3>
<blockquote>
The formation of diabetic foot ulcers (DFU) is consequential of peripheral neuropathy, peripheral arterial disease and foot deformity, leading to altered foot biomechanics and plantar loads. Plantar load comprises of normal pressure and shear stress, however, there are currently no in-shoe devices capable of measuring both components. The STrain Analysis and Mapping of the Plantar Surface (STAMPS) system, developed at the University of Leeds, utilises Digital Image Correlation (DIC) to measure the strain captured by a plastically deformable insole, as a method to understand plantar load during gait. A 2D DIC software was used to capture cumulative plantar strain and displacement pointwise data, however this method was limited to the analysis of planar surfaces. To address this, 3D instrumentation and DIC methods have been developed and implemented into the STAMPS3D system, used as a tool to capture data that is representative of the non-planar nature of plantar surfaces of the foot. A case-study is used to demonstrate how STAMPS3D can measure multi-dimensional strain, bringing potential to improve clinical screening of DFU risk.
</blockquote>




